Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.is code and instruction that de machine understand

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.JDK components:compiler, debugger,disassembler,JRE,Jvm ,core libraries
compiler:convert java code to bytecode file .class
debugger is command-line allow to developer to  examine step bye step the execution of code
JRE(contain jvm,jit compiler,core libraries):is java runtime environment is software java required to run program
jvm:java virtual machine is small component in java ,respensable read and verifies and execute java byte code
JIT(just in time )is compiler respensable to convert java bytecode to native code

What is IDE?
A.IDE(integrated development environment)is software application that
 helps programmers to develop programing code

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.eclipse
intellij
netBeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
 1)java compile time
      a)program java writen by developer(code source),
      b)compilation; compiler convert code source(program.java) to bytecode(program.class)
  2)java run time(execution)
      the bytecode generated after compilation (program.class) will be executed by jvm(jit)
      and output is code machine(native code)

what is class?
class is collection of variable and methods is blueprint

What is object?
object is instance of class

What is the entry point of an application?
main method

Why main is static?
yes
jvm can call main method directly without creating object,
this will save memory

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
interface:
Can only have final static variables
A class can implement multiple interfaces.
Can be implemented with the implements keyword.
Can only use static final fields, parameters, or local variables for methods
Can't have constructor
abstract class:
Can have any kind of instance or static variables
A class can extend only one abstract class.
A class can extend only one abstract class
Can only be extended.
 can have constructor

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
We cannot create objects of an abstract class. To implement object of an abstract class,
we inherit subclasses from it and create objects of subclass

what is Access Specifier?
 used to control the visibility and accessibility of classes, methods, and variables, exemple
  public, , private, and default

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
oop: is Oriented objet programing ,
feature of oops : , encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and abstraction
abstraction :is about variable,hide variable using private,and access to them using getter and setter method
polymorphism :give you possibilite to create 2 methode with same name using
method of overloading and overriding.
inheritance: the mechanism  which one class is allowed
 to inherit methods of another class.
interface:is an abstract type is used to specify a behavior that classes must implements

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
 package is a collection of related Java files(classes interface) stored in  folder and
 each package represents a logical grouping of functionality
java.lang is the default package

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
no because java does not support multiple inheritance

What is method overloading and when it happens?
is when you have 2 methods having the same name, the same number
of parameters but different body

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
An exception is an error event that can happen during the execution
of a program and disrupts its normal flow.
how to handle?:
use throw exception  or use try-catch-block

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable or method of a given class. we don't need
to create object for access. its belong to the class
 use static keyword for method :Access_modifier static void methodName() { // Method body.
 use static keyword for variable: static datatype variableName = Value;

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
The final keyword is a non-access modifier used for classes, variables and methods,
 which makes them non-changeable.
 The final  is used for variable when you want a variable  always store the same
 value(we can not assign another value)
 If we declare a method as final, then it cannot be overridden by any subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
The final keyword  used for classes, variables and methods,
 which makes them non-changeable.
finally in java:is java keyword used with try-catch-block in order to
execute statement anyways,
finalize :finalize is used to perform cleanup processing on an object before it garbage collected

What is a constructor ?
constructor: is a block of code similar to method called implicitly during the
object creation

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
class can have multiple constructors  with different parameters

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?

What is "this" keyword in java ?
this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.is use to assign
value to global variable with setter method in encapsulation

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
super is java keyword can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable. or parent
 class method.parent class constructor

What is JVM stand for ?
is java virtual machine ,is small component provide  runtime environment to execute  Java Code
or applications, It converts Java bytecode to machine code

Is JVM platform independent?
Jvm platform dependent because configuration of each operating system differs.

What version of java are you using?
java 11.0.2o

What is JAR stand for ?
JAR is Java ARchive ,is package contain compiled java code(file .class ) ,and we can used for other
 project having same features

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK:
jdk (java Development Kit) is a software development kit used to develop Java applications.
JDK contains tools for developing, monitoring and debugging java codes.

JVM:
Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is an abstract machine that provides an environment for the execution of
 Java ByteCodes.
 JVM does not include any software development tool

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE;
jre contain libraries,jvm and other tool that the program need to execute
jre works on the whole program ,mean need to perform packages like math.util..
JRE is installed into JDK by default
JVM;
jvm does not have many tools ,respensale to convert java bytecode to code machine
jvm become operational when the bytecode need to be converted to machine code
jvm is segment of JRE its installed into jre bye default

What is compile time and run time?
Compile-time is the time  which the source code(java code) is converted into an
executable code (byte code) and run time is the time which the executable code is started(
convert bytecode to native code is done bye jit compiler)

What is heap?
Heap is a section of memory allocated to store Objects during the run time of application

How java manage it's memory?
Java automatically manages memory.When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.to allow place
to other object

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?
In object-oriented programming, a java singleton  is a class that can have only one object
at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is
 the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
 At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a particular variable in a file,
 then we use transient keyword. When JVM comes across transient keyword,
 it ignores original value of the variable and save default value

Difference between while and do..while loop?
In the While loop, the condition is tested before  execution, if its true repeat
execution until condition is false ,if false statement will not be executed
In Do while-loop, the statement is executed at least once even if the condition is false

What is Enum?
 Enum is a Java type-class used to define collections of constants for your
 software

What is Iterator?
An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
 int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits to store.
  Integer is an object which takes 128 bits

Why is String Immutable in Java?
 its value can't be changed

What is constructor chaining in Java?
a technique of calling another constructor from one constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The difference is that the Parallel GC can use two or more threads to perform
the collection, while the Serial GC uses just one.

What is JIT stands for?
jit is compiler in jre his role is convert bytecode(program.class) to native machine

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
 when jvm start un head is created in memory to store objects, When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected,the objects
are no longer used are cleared to  space for new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
stack:
Stack memory is used to store items which have a very short
life like local variables, a reference variable of objects
heap;Heap memory is allocated to store objects and JRE classes.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
java is simple than c++
versatile suported bye huge community we can find solution to any problem
oriented object
powerful and secure

what is multithreading in java?

Multithreading in Java is an act of executing a complex

process using virtual processing entities independent of each other.
 These entities are called threads. Threads in Java are virtual and share the same memory location of the process.
As the threads are virtual, they exhibit a safer way of executing a process.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Java Synchronization is used to make sure by some synchronization
method that only one thread can access the resource at a given point in time

What is Framework?
 the body or platform of pre-written codes used by Java developers to
 develop Java applications or web applications

What are the testing Framework available in java?
selenium,junit,testNG
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
TestNG is a Java-based framework, while JUnit is an open-source Unit Testing Framework for JAVA.
Comparing TestNG Vs JUnit, TestNG annotations are easier to use and understand than JUnit.
TestNG allows us to create parallel tests, whereas JUnit does not support running parallel tests.
In TestNG, Test cases can be grouped together, while in JUnit, Grouping tests together is not possible

What are the dependencies for this project?
junit.jar,hamcrest.jar,mysql.jar

what is dependency injection in java?

What is static binding and dynamic binding?









